Ncsdk 13153 event manager proxy (#7093)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/event_manager_proxy/README.rst

.. _event_manager_proxy_sample:

Event Manager proxy
###################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Event Manager proxy sample demonstrates the functionality of :ref:`event_manager_proxy` to transport events between remote and host cores.
The sample also demonstrates the proposed application structure where common events declarations and definitions are available for both cores.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp

Overview
********

> Event Manager proxy sample copies the functionality from :ref:`app_event_manager_sample` sample but splits it between the two cores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The proxy sample copies the functionality from :ref:`app_event_manager_sample` sample, but splits it between the two cores.
```

> On the remote core, we have functionality that relates to the simulated sensor, while the host core take care of configuration and calculates statistics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The remote core runs the simulated sensor module, while the host core takes care of configuration and calculates statistics.
```

> The sample copies modules from :ref:`app_event_manager_sample` sample:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample uses modules from :ref:`app_event_manager_sample` sample, which communicate using events:
```

.. include:: ../app_event_manager/README.rst
   :start-after: event_manager_sample_modules_start
   :end-before: event_manager_sample_modules_end

> The only change is that the Statistic module now also counts control messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only change compared with the Application Event Manager sample modules is that the Statistic module now also counts control messages.
```

> The change was implemented to transfer different range of messages between cores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change allows to transfer different range of messages between cores.
```

> Files and directories layout
> ============================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
File and directory layout
=========================
```

The application is divided into host and remote.

> The host configuration is placed directly in the :file:`samples/event_manager_proxy` folder.
> The remote configuration is placed in the :file:`samples/event_manager_proxy/remote` folder.
> The remote configuration is added to the host as a subproject which means that it builts as part of the host application build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The host configuration is placed directly in the :file:`samples/event_manager_proxy` folder.
The remote configuration is placed in the :file:`samples/event_manager_proxy/remote` folder.
The remote configuration is added to the host as a subproject, which means that it builds as part of the host application build.
```

> Both remote and host use common event declarations and definitions that are placed in the :file:`samples/event_manager_proxy/common_events` folder.
> Both use modules that are placed in the :file:`samples/event_manager_proxy/modules` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both the remote and the host use common event declarations and definitions that are located in the :file:`samples/event_manager_proxy/common_events` folder, and modules that are located in the :file:`samples/event_manager_proxy/modules` folder.
```

Configuration
*************

> |config|

Reviewer: No custom configuration described, so this optional section can be removed, as per template.

Building and running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/event_manager_proxy`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

> Building the sample
> ===================
> 
> In the current sample construction it is required to flash the board with host and remote code.
> This can be done using west, starting from this sample directory:
> 
> .. code-block:: console
> 
>    west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp .
>    west flash
>    cd build/event_manager_proxy_remote-prefix/src/event_manager_proxy_remote-build/
>    west flash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the current sample version, you must separately build and program the firmware for the host and the remote.
For example, you can do this from the command line using west by completing the following steps:

1. Go to the sample directory.
#. Open the command line terminal.
#. Run the following command to build the application code for the host and the remote:

   .. code-block:: console

      west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp .
   
#. Program the host core:

   .. code-block:: console      
   
      west flash
   
#. Go to the remote build directory and program the remote core:
   
   .. code-block:: console
   
      cd build/event_manager_proxy_remote-prefix/src/event_manager_proxy_remote-build/
      west flash
```

   [00:00:02.012,176] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=3 val2=15 val3=45
   [00:00:02.012,298] <inf> event_manager: e: control_event
   [00:00:02.012,451] <inf> event_manager: e: ack_event
   [00:00:02.512,634] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=12 val3=57
   [00:00:03.012,939] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=9 val3=66
   [00:00:03.513,244] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=6 val3=72
   [00:00:04.013,488] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=3 val3=75
   [00:00:04.513,793] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=0 val3=75
   [00:00:05.014,099] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-3 val3=72
   [00:00:05.514,343] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-6 val3=66
   [00:00:06.014,648] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-9 val3=57
   [00:00:06.514,953] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-12 val3=45
   [00:00:07.015,197] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-15 val3=30
   [00:00:07.015,350] <inf> event_manager: e: control_event

>    [00:00:07.015,502] <inf> event_manager: e: ack_event

Reviewer: ```
#. Observe that output logged on two UART serial terminals:

   * On the host core, the messages similar to the following one should appear:

     .. code-block:: console

        [output]

     The host starts the communication by sending a ``config_event``, which is also received and processed by the remote core.
   * On the remote core, the messages similar to the following one should appear:

     .. code-block:: console

        [output]
```
Pay close attention to spacing, please.

> Now all the measurement and control events are generated on the remote core and passed to the host core where statistics are performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now all the measurement and control events are generated on the remote core and passed to the host core, where the statistics are generated.
```

> On the remote core, we can also see an ``ack_event`` that is not passed to the host core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the remote core, we can also see an :c:type:`ack_event`, which is not passed to the host core.
```

      [00:00:02.286,682] <inf> stats: Control event count: 1
      [00:00:02.787,017] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=12 val3=57
      [00:00:03.287,322] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=9 val3=66
      [00:00:03.787,597] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=6 val3=72
      [00:00:04.287,872] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=3 val3=75
      [00:00:04.788,177] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=0 val3=75
      [00:00:04.788,208] <inf> stats: Average value3: 45
      [00:00:05.288,452] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-3 val3=72
      [00:00:05.788,726] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-6 val3=66
      [00:00:06.289,031] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-9 val3=57
      [00:00:06.789,306] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-12 val3=45
      [00:00:07.289,611] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-15 val3=30
      [00:00:07.289,733] <inf> event_manager: e: control_event
      [00:00:07.289,733] <inf> stats: Control event count: 2

>    The host starts the communication by sending a ``config_event``, which is also received and processed by the remote core.

Reviewer: These lines need to be indented by 2 spaces.

      [00:00:02.012,176] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=3 val2=15 val3=45
      [00:00:02.012,298] <inf> event_manager: e: control_event
      [00:00:02.012,451] <inf> event_manager: e: ack_event
      [00:00:02.512,634] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=12 val3=57
      [00:00:03.012,939] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=9 val3=66
      [00:00:03.513,244] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=6 val3=72
      [00:00:04.013,488] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=3 val3=75
      [00:00:04.513,793] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=0 val3=75
      [00:00:05.014,099] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-3 val3=72
      [00:00:05.514,343] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-6 val3=66
      [00:00:06.014,648] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-9 val3=57
      [00:00:06.514,953] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-12 val3=45
      [00:00:07.015,197] <inf> event_manager: e:measurement_event val1=-3 val2=-15 val3=30
      [00:00:07.015,350] <inf> event_manager: e: control_event

>       [00:00:07.015,502] <inf> event_manager: e: ack_event

Reviewer: These lines need to be indented by 2 spaces.
